# MechaCar_Statistical_Analysis
Boot Camp Module 15: R and statistics

## Linear Regression to Predict MPG
Acording to the [summary of the linear regression model,](mechaChallengeSummarySnip.PNG) Vehicle Length, Ground_Clearance, and Vehicle Weight (somewhat) are statisticaly unlikely to provide random amounts of varaince to the linear model.  These measures have a significant impact on a car's Fuel Efficiency.  When looking at the regression co-efficient of each variable, we can see that the slope is not equal to zero.  This model would predict fuel efficiency with 70% accuracy indicated by the Multiple R-squared measure.

## Summary Statistics on Suspension Coils
The design specifications for the MechaCar suspension coils dictate that the variance of the suspension coils must not exceed 100 pounds per square inch.  The variance for [all lots in total](total_summary.PNG) is 62.29, and meets the specifications.  When we look at each [lot individually](lot_summary.PNG), Lot 3 does not meet specifications as the variance for that lot is 170.  Lots 1 and 2 meet specifications with a variance of 0.98 and 7.65 respectively.

## T-Tests on Suspension Coils
The results of the [t-test across all lots](total_t.PNG) shows that there is not a statistical difference between the population mean and the mean of our sample because the p-value is greater than our significance level of 0.05.  The mean PSI of vehicles for [Lot 1](lot1_t.PNG) is not statistically different from the population mean as evidenced by a p-value of 1.  The mean PSI of vehicles for [Lot 2](lot2_t.PNG) is not statistically different from the population mean as evidenced by a p-value of 0.6.  The mean PSI of vehicles for [Lot 3](lot3_t.PNG) is statistically different from the population mean as evidenced by a p-value of 0.04, which is less than our significance level of 0.05.  

## Study Design: MechaCar vs Competition
In order to design a statistical study to compare performance of the MechaCar vehicles against performance of vehicles from other manufacturers, I would begin by comparing city and highway fuel efficiency.  The null hypothesis would be that there is no statistical difference between the mean city mpg of the MechaCar and the mean city mpg of the competitor.  The alternative hypothesis would be that there is a statistical difference between the mean city mpg of the MechaCar and the mean city mpg of the competitor.  This test would need to be repeated against each competitor and again for the highway mpg.  Because I am comparing one vehicle to another (and not one vehicle to the entire vehicle population), the sample size would be large and the success metric (mpg) is numeric, I would use a two-sample t-test.  In order to complete this analysis, I would need the city and highway mpg data from competitor vehicles.